expand directory service intro [sc-4378] (#102)
trisacrypto/trisa: docs/content/gds/_index.en.md

---
title: "Directory Service"
date: 2021-06-14T11:21:42-05:00
lastmod: 2022-06-22T16:45:54-04:00
description: "The Global TRISA Directory Service (GDS)"
weight: 50
---

The TRISA organization hosts the TRISA Global Directory Service (GDS) on behalf of the TRISA network. The TRISA protocol specifies interactions with GDS. GDS facilitates peer-to-peer exchanges between TRISA members as follows:

- By issuing mTLS certificates to verify exchanges
- By providing discovery services for finding TRISA endpoints
- By providing certificate and KYCV (Know Your Counterparty VASP) information for verification

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that TRISA is a peer-to-peer network with no centralized authority for collecting or exchanging Travel Rule data.
```

> GDS serves as a decentralized store of member information. After VASPs submit required information, GDS provides secure communication for VASPs to exchange transaction information by providing trusted certificates with TRISA as the Certificate Authority. These certificates are issued after extended validation and prove that the VASP is a trusted member of the TRISA network. However, GDS does not control the exchange; it only confirms the information provided. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GDS serves as a Certificate Authority for TRISA exchanges. After VASPs submit required information and are verified, GDS issues them Identity Certificates which VASPs can use to establish mTLS connections with counterparties, thereby securing communications that contain private Originator and Beneficiary data. These certificates are issued after extended validation and prove that the VASP is a trusted member of the TRISA network. In this way, GDS does not control the exchange; rather it helps to confirm the identities of parties involved in Travel Rule information exchanges.
```
